## 1. SECTION: SCHEDULING
For this question, please set the context to ``cluster1`` by running:
```bash
kubectl config use-context cluster1
```
The deployment called ``trace-wl08`` inside the ``test-wl08`` namespace on cluster1 has undergone several, routine, rolling updates and rollbacks.


Inspect the ``revision 2`` of this deployment and store the image name that was used in this revision in the ``/opt/trace-wl08-revision-book.txt`` file on the ``student-node``.

Solution 

Set the correct context: -
```bash
kubectl get deploy -n test-wl08
```
List the deployments in ``test-wl08`` namespace as follows: -
```bash
kubectl get deploy -n test-wl08
```
Run the following command to check the revisions of the deployment called ``trace-wl08:-``
```bash
kubectl rollout history deployment -n test-wl08 trace-wl08
```
Inspect the ``revision 2`` by using the ``--revision`` option: -
```bash
kubectl rollout history deployment -n test-wl08 trace-wl08 --revision=2
```
Under the ``Containers`` section, you will see the ``image`` name.

On the ``student-node``, save that image name in the given file`` /opt/trace-wl08-revision-book.txt:``
```bash
echo "busybox:1.35" > /opt/trace-wl08-revision-book.txt
```
## 2. SECTION: SCHEDULING
For this question, please set the context to ``cluster3`` by running:
```bash
kubectl config use-context cluster3
```

One of our applications runs on the ``cluster3-controlplane`` node. Due to the possibility of traffic increase, we want to scale the application pods to loadbalance the traffic and provide a smoother user experience.

``cluster3-controlplane`` node has enough resources to deploy more application pods. Scale the deployment called ``essports-wl02`` to ``5``

Solution

Set the correct context:
```bash
kubectl config use-context cluster3
```
Now, get the details of the nodes: -
```bash
kubectl get nodes -o wide
```
then ``SSH`` to the given node by the following command: -
```bash
ssh cluster3-controlplane
```
And run the ``kubectl scale`` command as follows: -
```bash
kubectl scale deploy essports-wl02 --replicas=5
```
OR

You can run the ``kubectl scale`` command from the ``student`` node as well: -
```bash
kubectl scale deploy essports-wl02 --replicas=5
```
Verify the scaled-up pods by ``kubectl get`` command: -
```bash
kubectl get pods
```
The number of pods should be 1 to 5.

## 3.SECTION: SCHEDULING

For this question, please set the context to cluster3 by running:

```bash
kubectl config use-context cluster3
```
One of our Junior DevOps engineers have deployed a pod ``nginx-wl06`` on the ``cluster3-controlplane`` node. However, while specifying the resource limits, instead of using ``Mebibyte`` as the unit, ``Gebibyte`` was used.

As a result, the node doesn't have sufficient resources to deploy this pod and it is stuck in a pending state

Fix the units and re-deploy the pod (Delete and recreate the pod if needed).

Solution

Set the correct context: -

```bash
kubectl config use-context cluster3
```
Run the following command to check the pending pods on all the namespaces: -
```bash
kubectl get pods -A
```
After that, inspect the pod Events as follows: -

```bash
kubectl get pods -A | grep -i pending

kubectl describe po nginx-wl06
```
Make use of the ``kubectl edit`` command to update the values from ``Gi`` to ``Mi``:-
```bash
kubectl edit po nginx-wl06
```
It will save the temporary file under the ``/tmp/`` directory. Use the ``kubectl replace`` command as follows: -
```bash
kubectl replace -f /tmp/kubectl-edit-xxxx.yaml --force
```
It will delete the existing pod and will re-create it again with new changes.

## 4. SECTION: SCHEDULING

Create a deployment called ``app-wl01`` using the ``nginx`` image and scale the application pods to ``2``.

Solution:

Run the command to change the context: 
```bash
kubectl config use-context cluster1
```
Run the following commands: -
```bash
kubectl create deployment app-wl01 --image=nginx --replicas=2
```
To cross-verify the deployed resources, run the commands as follows: -
```bash
kubectl get pods,deployments
```

## 5. SECTION: SCHEDULIN

For this question, please set the context to cluster3 by running:
```bash
kubectl config use-context cluster3
```

A manifest file is available at the ``/root/app-wl03/`` on the ``student-node`` node. There are some issues with the file; hence couldn't deploy a pod on the ``cluster3-controlplane`` node.

After fixing the issues, deploy the pod, and it should be in a running state.

NOTE: - Ensure that the existing ``limits`` are unchanged.

Solution:

Set the correct context: -
```bash
kubectl config use-context cluster3
```
Use the ``cd ``command to move to the given directory: -
```bash
cd /root/app-wl03/
```
While creating the resource, you will see the error output as follows:
```bash
kubectl create -f app-wl03.yaml 
The Pod "app-wl03" is invalid: spec.containers[0].resources.requests: Invalid value: "1Gi": must be less than or equal to memory limit
```
In the ``spec.containers.resources.requests.memory`` value is not configured as compare to the memory limit.

As a fix, open the manifest file with the text editor such as ``vim`` or ``nano`` and set the value to ``100Mi`` or less than ``100Mi``.

It should be look like as follows: -
```yaml
resources:
     requests:
       memory: 100Mi
     limits:
       memory: 100Mi

```
Final, create the resource from the ``kubectl create`` command:
```bash
kubectl create -f app-wl03.yaml 
pod/app-wl03 created
```

## 6. SECTION: SCHEDULING

We have deployed a simple web application called ``frontend-wl04 ``on ``cluster1``. This version of the application has some issues from a security point of view and needs to be updated to version 2.


Update the image and wait for the application to fully deploy.


You can verify the running application using the ``curl ``command on the terminal:
```bash
student-node ~ ➜  curl http://cluster1-node01:30080
<!doctype html>
<title>Hello from Flask</title>
<body style="background: #2980b9;"></body>
<div style="color: #e4e4e4;
    text-align:  center;
    height: 90px;
    vertical-align:  middle;">

  <h1>Hello from frontend-wl04-84fc69bd96-p7rbl!</h1>



  <h2>
    Application Version: v1
  </h2>


</div>
student-node ~ ➜ 
```
```bash

```

```bash

```

```bash

```

```bash

```

```bash

```

```bash

```

```bash

```

```bash

```

```bash

```

```bash
```
```bash

```

```bash

```

```bash

```

```bash

```

```bash

```

```bash

```

```bash

```

```bash

```

```bash

```

```bash
```
```bash

```

```bash

```

```bash

```

```bash

```

```bash

```

```bash

```

```bash

```

```bash

```

```bash

```

```bash
```